“Digital Interfaces: A Significant Contribution to Early Modern Theatre Studies.”
Dr. Christophe Schuwey 
University of Fribourg 
Deal with news trends in 17th C France, Cultural trends. Classical French Theatre. 


The Chronicle: The Digital Humanities Bust (After a decade of investment and hype, what has the field accomplished? Not much).
Yikes. Controversy...So much $ goes into Dig H but not much comes out. 
Apparently, Dig H only uses graphs and charts...lexicons, trees, maps...Limits DIg H to computational analysis. 

These charts, though, HELP understand literature. Not especially clear to me still how…
DIg H: how to make interfaces with knowledge. Graphs and charts etc help (they are interfaces). Graphs helps show HOW people understand text. 
Wants to show that Digital Interfaces are essential in helping show information. 
Interface is the only way we can interact with the data. Not about making it pretty about UNDERSTANDING. 


Discussing the effectiveness of google books. Can search on google with plain text, and just with a few selections can simplify the search immensely.
Some problems. 
Some books are not digitized
Word identifiers for digitizing are not always accurate
Taking a play (written in a “boring”...distant to us..way.) changed from old written text to something that looks like a TEXT MESSAGE (showing a face and a blurb when it is speaking...shows the quick wit in dialogue). Showing a picture of her face and info on her if she is speaking in the play. Much more interactive. Foot notes throughout too to have info in there to teach! Immediate in communicating information. COnnecting the reading with the information more instantaneously. Very interesting! Mentioned...this is what the author wanted. My reaction: bold statement but maybe it’s a helpful way to express the play like the author wanted...get rid of the distance that old books make...maybe a new way of renewing what book used to do for students (people). 
Another way he showed us for organizing books is showing the block of text (a large play for example), but on the side there is a box showing what chapter you are at/when you transition/ and encourages you even to jump around to another section in case you want to or “get bored”.  Might make you read differently. 
Info needs to be delivered quickly or else user will become not interested. And also, scrolling is easier than clicking to turn pages. 
Interactive seating chart (can choose and day and it can tell you climate and volume). Makes you experience reading the play more real. 

My note: Interesting to hear about this because it’s using software as much as possible to give people the possibility to experience life more through a digital means. Creative!!
Maintaining interfaces:
Books are maintained…?
Yikes zoned out and suddenly it was over.
It started deteriorating? WHY? Showed example of how the website’s images were empty. Icons only. 
